XXXIII. The Fate of Injun Joe.
Within a few minutes the news had spread, and a dozen skiff-loads of men were on their
way to MacDougall's cave, and the ferry-boat, well filled with passengers, soon followed.
Tom Sawyer was in a skiff that bore Judge Thatcher. When the cave-door was unlocked,
a sorrowful sight presented itself in the dim twilight of the place. Injun Joe lay stretched
upon the ground, dead, with his face close to the crack of the door, as if his longing
eyes had been fixed to the latest moment upon the light and the cheer of the free world
outside. Tom was touched, for he knew by his own experience how this wretch had suffered.
His pity was moved, but nevertheless he felt an abounding sense of relief and security
now which revealed to him, in a degree which he had not fully appreciated before, how vast
a weight of dread had been lying upon him since the day he lifted his voice against
this bloody-minded outcast.
Injun Joe's bowie-knife lay close by, its blade broken in two. The great foundation
beam of the door had been chipped and hacked through with tedious labor. Useless labor,
too, it was, for the native rock formed a sill outside it, and upon that stubborn material
the knife had wrought no effect. The only damage done was to the knife itself. But if
there had been no stony obstruction there, the labor would have been useless still, for
if the beam had been wholly cut away, Injun Joe could not have squeezed his body under
the door, and he knew it. So he had only hacked that place in order to be doing something,
in order to pass the weary time, in order to employ his tortured faculties. Ordinarily
one could find half a dozen bits of candles stuck around in the crevices of this vestibule,
left there by tourists, but there were none now. The prisoner had searched them out and
eaten them. He had also contrived to catch a few bats, and these also he had eaten, leaving
only their claws. The poor unfortunate had starved to death. In one place near at hand
a stalagmite had been slowly growing up from the ground for ages, builded by the water-drip
from a stalactite overhead. The captive had broken off the stalagmite, and upon the stump
had placed a stone, wherein he had scooped a shallow hollow to catch the precious drop
that fell once in every three minutes, with the dreary regularity of a clock-tick, a dessert
spoonful once in four and twenty hours. That drop was falling when the pyramids were new,
when Troy fell, when the foundations of Rome were laid, when Christ was crucified, when
the conqueror created the British Empire, when Columbus sailed, when the massacre at
Lexington was news. It is falling now. It will still be falling when all these things
shall have sunk down the afternoon of history and the twilight of tradition, and been swallowed
up in the thick night of oblivion. Has everything a purpose and a mission? Did this drop fall
patiently during five thousand years to be ready for this flitting human insect's need?
And has it another important object to accomplish ten thousand years to come? No matter. It
is many and many a year since the hapless half-breed scooped out the stone to catch
the priceless drops. But to this day the tourist stares longest at that pathetic stone and
that slow-dropping water when he comes to see the wonders of MacDougall's cave. Injun
Joe's cup stands first in the list of the cavern's marvels. Even Aladdin's palace cannot
rival it.
Injun Joe was buried near the mouth of the cave, and people flocked there in boats and
wagons from the towns and from all the farms and hamlets for seven miles around. They brought
their children and all sorts of provisions, and confessed that they had had almost as
satisfactory a time at the funeral as they could have had at the hanging. This funeral
stopped the further growth of one thing—the petition to the governor for Injun Joe's pardon.
The petition had been largely signed, many tearful and eloquent meetings had been held,
and a committee of sappy women had been appointed to go in deep mourning and wail around the
and implore him to be a merciful ass and trample his duty underfoot. Injun Joe was believed
to have killed five citizens of the village, but what of that? If he had been Satan himself
there would have been plenty of weaklings ready to scribble their names to a pardon
petition and drip a tear on it from their permanently impaired and leaky waterworks.
The morning after the funeral Tom took Huck to a private place to have an important talk.
Huck had learned all about Tom's adventure from the Welshmen and the widow, Douglas,
by this time, but Tom said he reckoned there was one thing they had not told him. That
thing was what he wanted to talk about now.
Huck's face saddened. He said,
"'I know what it is. You got into Number Two and never found anything but whiskey. Nobody
told me it was you, but I just noted must have been you, as soon as I heard about that
whiskey business. And I knowed you hadn't got the money, because you'd have got it me
some way or other and told me even if you was mum to everybody else. Tom, something's
always told me we'd never get hold of that swag.'
"'Why, Huck, I never told on that tavern keeper. You know his tavern was all right
the Saturday I went to the picnic. Don't you remember you was to watch there that night?'
"'Oh, yes. Why, it seems about a year ago. It was that very night that I followed Injun
Joe to the widders.'
"'You followed him?'
"'Yes, but you keep mum. I reckon Injun Joe's left friends behind him, and I don't
them soaring on me and doing me mean tricks. If it hadn't been for me he'd be down in
Texas now, all right.' Then Huck told his entire adventure in confidence to Tom, who
had only heard of the Welshman's part of it before.
"'Well,' said Huck, presently, coming back to the main question, "'whoever nipped
the whiskey in Number Two nipped the money, too, I reckon. Anyway, it's a goner for us,
Tom.'
"'Huck, that money wasn't ever in Number Two.'
"'What?' Huck searched his comrade's face keenly.
"'Tom, have you got on the track of that money again?'
"'Huck, it's in the cave!' Huck's eyes blazed.
"'Say it again, Tom. The money's in the cave.'
"'Tom, honest Injun now, is it fun or earnest?'
"'Ernest, Huck. Just as earnest as ever I was in my life. Will you go in there with
me and help me get it out?'
"'I bet I will. I will if it's where we can blaze our way to it and not get lost. Huck,
we can do that without the least little bit of trouble in the world.'
"'Good as wheat. What makes you think the money's—'
"'Huck, you just wait till we get in there. If we don't find it, I'll agree to give you
my drum and everything I've got in the world. I will, by jings.'
"'All right, it's a whiz. When do you say?'
"'Right now, if you say it. Are you strong enough?'
"'Is it far in the cave? I've been on my pins a little three, four days now, but I can't
walk more than a mile, Tom. Least I don't think I could.'
"'It's about five mile into there, the way anybody but me would go, Huck. But there's
a mighty short cut that they don't anybody but me know about. Huck, I'll take you right
to it in a skiff. I'll float the skiff down there, and I'll pull it back again all by
myself. You needn't ever turn your hand over. Let's start right off, Tom. All right. We
want some bread and meat and our pipes and a little bag or two and two or three kite
strings and some of these newfangled things they call Lucifer matches. I tell you, many's
the time I wished I had some when I was in there before. A trifle afternoon the boys
borrowed a small skiff from a citizen who was absent, and got under way at once. When
they were several miles below Cave Hollow, Tom said,
"'Now, you see this bluff here looks all alike all the way down from the Cave Hollow? No
houses, no woodyards, bushes all alike. But do you see that white place up there, where
there's been a landslide? Well, that's one of my marks. We'll get ashore now.' They
landed.
"'Now, Huck, where we're a-standin', you could touch that hole I got out of with a fishing-pole.
See if you can find it.'
Huck searched all the place about and found nothing. Tom proudly marched into a thick
clump of sumac bushes and said,
"'Here you are. Look at it, Huck. It's the snuggest hole in this country. You just keep
mum about it. All along I've been wanted to be a robber, but I knew I'd got to have a
this, and where to run across it was the bother. We've got it now, and we'll keep it quiet.
Only we'll let Joe Harper and Ben Rogers in, because, of course, there's got to be a gang,
or else there wouldn't be any style about it. Tom Sawyer's gang. It sounds splendid,
don't it, Huck?'
"'Well, it just does, Tom. And who'll we rob?'
"'Oh, most anybody. Weigh lay people, that's mostly the way. And kill them?'
"'No, not always. Hive them in the cave till they raise a ransom.'
"'What's a ransom?'
"'Money. You make them raise all they can, often their friends, and after you've kept
them a year, if it ain't raised, then you kill them. That's the general way, only you
don't kill the women. You shut up the women, but you don't kill them. They're always beautiful
and rich and awfully scared. You take their watches and things, but you always take your
hat off and talk plight. They ain't anybody as plight as robbers. You'll see that in any
book. Well, the women get to loving you, and after they've been in the cave a week or two
weeks they stop crying, and after that you couldn't get them to leave. If you drove them
out they'd turn right round and come back. It's so in all the books.'
"'Why, it's really bully, Tom. I believe it's betterin' to be a pirate.'
"'Yes, it's better in some ways, because it's close to home and circuses and all that.'
By this time everything was ready and the boys entered the hole, Tom in the lead. They
toiled their way to the farther end of the tunnel, then made their spliced kite-strings
fast and moved on. A few steps brought them to the spring, and Tom felt a shudder quiver
all through him. He showed Huck the fragment of Candlewick perched on a lump of clay against
the wall, and described how he and Becky had watched the flames struggle and expire. The
boys began to quiet down to whispers now, for the stillness and gloom of the place oppressed
their spirits. They went on, and presently entered, and followed Tom's other corridors
until they reached the jumping-off place. The candles revealed the fact that it was
not really a precipice, but only a steep clay hill twenty or thirty feet high. Tom whispered,
"'Now I'll show you something, Huck.' He held his candle aloft, and said, "'Look as
far round the corner as you can. Do you see that? There, on the big rock over yonder,
down with the candle-smoke. Tom, it's a cross. Now, where's your number two?'
"'Under the cross, hey. Right yonder's where I saw Injun Joe poke up his candle, Huck.'
Huck stared at the mystic sign awhile, and then said with a shaky voice,
"'Tom, let's get out of here.'
"'What! And leave the treasure?'
"'Yes, leave it. Injun Joe's ghost is round about there, certain.'
"'No, it ain't, Huck, no it ain't. It would haunt the place where he died, way out at
the mouth of the cave, five miles from here.'
"'No, Tom, it wouldn't. It would hang around the money. I know the ways of ghosts, and
so do you.'
Tom began to fear that Huck was right. Misgivings gathered in his mind, but presently an idea
occurred to him.
"'Look here, Tuck, what fools we're making of ourselves. Injun Joe's ghost ain't a-going
to come round where there's a cross.' The point was well taken. It had its effect.
"'Tom, I didn't think of that. But that's so. It's luck for us that cross is. I reckon
we'll climb down there and have a hunt for that box.'
Tom went first, cutting rude steps in the clay hill as he descended. Huck followed.
Four avenues opened out of the small cavern which the great rock stood in. The boys examined
three of them with no result. They found a small recess in the one nearest the base of
rock, with a pallet of blankets spread down in it. Also an old suspender, some bacon rind,
and the well-nog bones of two or three fowls. But there was no money box. The lads searched
and researched this place, but in vain. Tom said,
"'He said under the cross. Well, this comes nearest to being under the cross. It can't
be under the rock itself, because that's set solid on the ground.' They searched everywhere
once more, and then sat down discouraged. Huck could suggest nothing. By-and-by Tom
said,
"'Looky here, Huck, there's footprints and some candle-grease on the clay about one side
of this rock, but not on the other sides. Now what's that for?'
"'I bet you the money is under the rock. I'm going to dig in the clay.'
"'That ain't no bad notion, Tom,' said Huck with animation. Tom's real barlow was out
at once, and he had not dug four inches before he struck wood.
"'Hey, Huck, you hear that?'
Huck began to dig and scratch now. Some boards were soon uncovered and removed. They had
concealed a natural chasm which led under the rock. Tom got into this and held his candle
as far under the rock as he could, but said he could not see to the end of the rift. He
proposed to explore. He stooped and passed under. The narrow way descended gradually.
He followed its winding course, first to the right and then to the left. Huck at his heels.
Tom turned a short curve by and by and exclaimed,
"'My goodness, Huck, looky here!'
It was the treasure box, sure enough, occupying a snug little cavern, along with an empty
powder keg, a couple of guns and leather cases, two or three pairs of old moccasins, a leather
belt, and some other rubbish, well soaked with the water-drip.
"'Got it at last,' said Huck, ploughing among the tarnished coins with his hands.
"'My, but we're rich, Tom!'
"'Huck, I always reckoned we'd get it. It's just too good to believe. But we have got
it, sure. Say, let's not fool around here. Let's snake it out. Let me see if we can lift
the box.'
It weighed about fifty pounds. Tom could lift it after an awkward fashion, but could not
carry it conveniently.
"'I thought so,' he said. They carried it like it was heavy, that day at the haunted
house. I noticed that. I reckon I was right to think of fetching the little bags along."
The money was soon in the bags, and the boys took it up to the cross-rock.
"'Now, let's fetch the guns and things,' said Huck.
"'No, Huck. Leave them there. They're just the tricks to have when you go to robbing.
We'll keep them there all the time, and we'll hold our orgies there, too. It's an awful
snug place for orgies.'
"'What's orgies?'
"'I don't know. But robbers always have orgies, and of course we've got to have them, too.'
"'Come along, Huck. We've been here a long time. It's getting late, I reckon. I'm hungry,
too. We'll eat and smoke when we get to the skiff.'
They presently emerged into the clump of Sumac bushes, looked warily about, found the coast
clear, and were soon lunching and smoking in the skiff. As the sun dipped toward the
horizon they pushed out and got under way. Tom skimmed up the shore through the long
twilight chatting cheerily with Huck, and landed shortly after dark.
"'Now, Huck,' said Tom, "'we'll hide the money in the loft of the Witter's woodshed,
and I'll come up in the morning, and we'll count it and divide it, and then we'll hunt
up a place out in the woods for it, where it will be safe. Just you lay quiet here and
watch the stuff till I run up and hook Benny Taylor's little wagon. I won't be gone a minute.'
He disappeared, and presently returned with the wagon, put the two small sacks into it,
threw some old rags on top of them, and started off dragging his cargo behind him. When the
boys reached the Welshman's house they stopped to rest. Just as they were about to move on
the Welshman stepped out and said,
"'Hullo, who's that?'
"'Huck and Tom Sawyer.'
"'Good. Come along with me, boys. You are keeping everybody waiting. Here, hurry up,
trot ahead, I'll haul the wagon for you.'
"'Why, it's not as light as it might be. Got bricks in it? Or old metal?'
"'Old metal,' said Tom.
"'I judge so. The boys in this town will take more trouble and fool away more time
hunting up six bits worth of old iron to sell to the foundry than they would to make twice
the money at regular work. But that's human nature. Hurry along, hurry along.'
The boys wanted to know what the hurry was about.
"'Never mind. You'll see when we get to the widow Douglas's.'
Huck said with some apprehension, for he was long used to being falsely accused.
"'Mr. Jones, we haven't been doing nothing.'
The Welshman laughed.
"'Well, I don't know, Huck, my boy. I don't know about that. Ain't you and the widow
good friends?'
"'Yes. Well, she's been good friends to me, anyways.'
"'All right, then. What do you want to be frayed for?'
This question was not entirely answered in Huck's slow mind before he found himself pushed,
along with Tom, into Mrs. Douglas's drawing-room. Mr. Jones left the wagon near the door and
followed. The place was grandly lighted, and everybody that was of any consequence in the
village was there. The Thatchers were there, the Harpers, the Rogerses, Aunt Polly, Sid,
Mary, the Minister, the Editor, and a great many more, and all dressed in their best.
The widow received the boys as heartily as any one could well receive two such-looking
beings. They were covered with clay and candle-grease. Aunt Polly blushed crimson with humiliation
and frowned and shook her head at Tom. Nobody suffered half as much as the two boys did,
however. Mr. Jones said,
"'Tom wasn't at home yet, so I gave him up. But I stumbled on him and Huck right at my
door, and so I just brought them along in a hurry.'
"'And you did just right,' said the widow.
"'Come with me, boys.' She took them to a bed-chamber, and said,
"'Now, wash and dress yourselves. Here are two new suits of clothes—shirts, socks,
everything complete. They're Huck's.'
"'No, no thanks, Huck. Mr. Jones bought one and I the other. But they'll fit both of you.
Get into them. We'll wait. Come down when you are slicked up enough.' Then she left."
End of chapter 33
CHAPTER 34
FLOODS OF GOLD
Huck said,
"'Tom, we can slope if we can find a rope. The window ain't high from the ground.'
"'Shucks, what do you want to slope for?'
"'Well, I ain't used to that kind of crowd. I can't stand it. I ain't going down there, Tom.'
"'Oh, bother it ain't anything. I don't mind it a bit. I'll take care of you,' said appeared.
"'Tom,' said he, "'Auntie has been waiting for you all the afternoon.
Mary got your Sunday clothes ready, and everybody's been fretting about you.
Say, ain't this grease and clay on your clothes? Now, Mr. City,
you just tend to your own business. What's all this blow-out about, anyway?'
"'It's one of the widow's parties that she's always having. This time it's for the Welshman
and his sons, on account of that scrape they helped her out of the other night.
And say, I can tell you something, if you want to know.'
"'Well, what? Why, old Mr. Jones is going to try to spring something on the people here
to-night, but I overheard him tell Auntie to-day about it, as a secret,
but I reckon it's not much of a secret now. Everybody knows, the widow too,
for all she tries to let on she don't, Mr. Jones was bound Huck should be here,
couldn't get along with his grand secret without Huck, you know.'
"'Secret about what, Sid?'
"'About Huck tracking the robbers to the widow's. I reckon Mr. Jones was
going to make a grand time over his surprise, but I bet you it will drop
pretty flat.' Sid chuckled in a very contented and satisfied way.
"'Sid, was it you that told?'
"'Oh, never mind who it was. Somebody told, that's enough. Sid, there's only
one person in this town mean enough to do that, and that's you. If you'd
been in Huck's place, you'd have sneaked down the hill and never told
anybody on the robbers. You can't do any but mean things, and you can't
see anybody praise for doing good ones. There, no thanks, as the widow
says, and Tom cuffed Sid's ears and helped him to the door with several
kicks. Now go and tell Auntie if you dare, and tomorrow you'll catch it.'
Some minutes later the widow's guests were at the supper table, and a
dozen children were propped up at little side tables in the same room
after the fashion of that country and that day. At the proper time Mr.
Jones made his little speech, in which he thanked the widow for the
honor she was doing himself and his sons, but said that there was
another person whose modesty and so forth and so on. He sprung his
secret about Huck's share in the adventure in the finest dramatic
manner he was master of, but the surprise at occasion was largely
counterfeit and not as clamorous and effusive as it might have been
under happier circumstances. However, the widow made a pretty fair show
of astonishment and heaped so many compliments and so much gratitude
upon Huck that he almost forgot the nearly intolerable discomfort of
his new clothes in the entirely intolerable discomfort of being set up
as a target for everybody's gaze and everybody's laudations. The widow
said she meant to give Huck a home under her roof and have him
educated, and that when she could spare the money she would start him in
business in a modest way. Tom's chance was come. He said,
"'Huck don't need it. Huck's rich.' Nothing but a heavy strain upon the
good manners of the company kept back the due and proper complementary
laugh at this pleasant joke, but the silence was a little awkward. Tom
broke it. "'Huck's got money. Maybe you don't believe it, but he's got
lots of it. Oh, you needn't smile. I reckon I can show you. You just
wait a minute.' Tom ran out of doors. The company looked at each other
with a perplexed interest and inquiringly at Huck, who was tongue-tied.
"'Sid! What ails Tom?' said Aunt Polly. "'He—well, there ain't ever any
making of that boy out. I never—' Tom entered, struggling with the
weight of his sacks, and Aunt Polly did not finish her sentence. Tom
poured the mass of yellow coins upon the table and said, "'There! What
did I tell you? Half of it's Huck's and half of it's mine!' The
spectacle took the general breath away. All gazed, nobody spoke for a
moment. Then there was a unanimous call for an explanation. Tom said he
could furnish it, and he did. The tale was long, but brimful of interest.
There was scarcely an interruption from any one to break the charm of
its flow. When he had finished, Mr. Jones said, "'I thought I had fixed
up a little surprise for this occasion, but it don't amount to anything
now. This one makes it sing mighty small, I'm willing to allow.' The
money was counted. The sum amounted to a little over $12,000. It was
more than any one present had ever seen at one time before, though
several persons were there who were worth considerably more than that in
property."
CHAPTER XXXV.
RESPECTABLE HUCK JOINS THE GANG.
The reader may rest satisfied that Tom's and Huck's windfall made a
mighty stir in the poor little village of St. Petersburg. So vast a sum,
all in actual cash, seemed next to incredible. It was talked about,
gloated over, glorified, until the reason of many of the citizens
tottered under the strain of the unhealthy excitement. Every haunted
house in St. Petersburg and the neighbouring villages was dissected
plank by plank, and its foundations dug up and ransacked for hidden
treasure. And not by boys, but men, pretty grave, unromantic men, too,
some of them. Wherever Tom and Huck appeared they were courted,
admired, stared at. The boys were not able to remember that their
remarks had possessed weight before, but now their sayings were
treasured and repeated. Everything they did seemed somehow to be
regarded as remarkable. They had evidently lost the power of doing and
saying commonplace things. Moreover, their past history was raked up
and discovered to bear marks of conspicuous originality. The village
published biographical sketches of the boys. The widow Douglas put
Huck's money out at six per cent, and Judge Thatcher did the same with
Tom's at Aunt Polly's request. Each lad had an income now that was
simply prodigious—a dollar for every weekday in the year and half of
the Sundays. It was just what the minister got—no, it was what he was
promised. He generally couldn't collect it. A dollar and a quarter a
week would board, lodge, and school a boy in those old simple days, and
clothe him and wash him, too, for that matter.
Judge Thatcher had conceived a great opinion of Tom. He said that no
commonplace boy would ever have got his daughter out of the cave. When
Becky told her father, in strict confidence, how Tom had taken her
whipping at school, the judge was visibly moved. And when she pleaded
grace for the mighty lie which Tom had told in order to shift that
from her shoulders to his own, the judge said with a fine outburst that
it was a noble, a generous, a magnanimous lie—a lie that was worthy
to hold up its head and march down through history, breast to breast,
with George Washington's lauded truth about the hatchet. Becky thought
her father had never looked so tall and so superb as when he walked the
floor and stamped his foot and said that. She went straight off and told
Tom about it. Judge Thatcher hoped to see Tom a great lawyer or a great
soldier some day. He said he meant to look to it that Tom should be
admitted to the National Military Academy and afterward trained in the
best law school in the country, in order that he might be ready for
either career or both. Huck Finn's wealth and the fact that he was now
under the widow Douglas's protection introduced him into society—no,
dragged him into it, hurled him into it, and his sufferings were almost
more than he could bear. The widow's servants kept him clean and neat,
combed and brushed, and they bedded him nightly in unsympathetic
sheets that had not one little spot or stain which he could press to his
heart and know for a friend. He had to eat with knife and fork, and had
to use napkin, cup, and plate. He had to learn his book. He had to go to
church. He had to talk so properly that speech was becoming sippid in his
mouth. Withersoever he turned, the bars and shackles of civilization
shut him in, and bound him hand and foot. He bravely bore his miseries
three weeks, and then one day turned up missing. For forty-eight hours
the widow hunted for him everywhere in great distress. The public were
profoundly concerned. They searched high and low, they dragged the river
for his body. Early the third morning Tom Sawyer wisely went poking
among some old empty hogsheads down behind the abandoned slaughterhouse,
and in one of them he found the refugee. Huck had slept there. He had
just breakfast upon some stolen odds and ends of food, and was lying off
now in comfort with his pipe. He was unkempt, uncombed, and clad in the
same old ruin of rags that had made him picturesque in the days when he
was free and happy. Tom routed him out, told him the trouble he had been
causing, and urged him to go home. Huck's face lost its tranquil content,
and took a melancholy cast. He said,
Don't talk about it, Tom. I've tried it, and it don't work. It don't
work, Tom. It ain't for me. I ain't used to it. The widow's good to me
and friendly, but I can't stand them ways. She makes me get up just at
the same time every morning. She makes me wash, they comb me all to
thunder. She won't let me sleep in the woodshed. I got to wear them
blamed clothes that just smothers me, Tom. They don't seem to let any
air get through them somehow, and they're so rotten nice that I can't
sit down, nor lay down, nor roll around anywheres. I ain't slid on a
cellar door for—well, it appears to be years. I got to go to church
and sweat and sweat. I hate them ornery sermons. I can't catch a fly in
there. I can't chaw. I got to wear shoes all Sunday. The widow eats by
a bell. She goes to bed by a bell. She gets up by a bell. Everything's
awful regular. A body can't stand it. Well, everybody does that, Huck.
Tom, it don't make no difference. I ain't everybody, and I can't stand
it. It's awful to be tied up so, and grub comes too easy. I don't take
no interest in vittles that way. I got to ask to go a fishing. I got to
ask to go in a swimming. Durned if I ain't got to ask to do everything.
Well, I'd got to talk so nice it wasn't no comfort. I'd got to go up in
the attic and rip out a while every day to get a taste in my mouth, or
I'd have died, Tom. The widow wouldn't let me smoke. She wouldn't let
me yell. She wouldn't let me gape, nor stretch, nor scratch before
folks. Then, with a spasm of special irritation and injury, and dead
fetch it, she prayed all the time. I never see such a woman. I had to
shove, Tom. I just had to. And besides, that school's going to open, and
I'd have got to go to it. Well, I wouldn't stand that, Tom. Looky here,
Tom. Being rich ain't what it's cracked up to be. It's just worry and
worry, and sweat and sweat, and a-wishing you was dead all the time.
Now, these clothes suits me, and this barrel suits me, and I ain't ever
going to shake them any more. Tom, I wouldn't ever got into all this
trouble if it hadn't been for that money. Now, you just take my share of
it along with urine, and give me a ten cent or sometimes—not many
times—because I don't give a darn for a thing without its tolerable
hard-to-get, and you go and beg off for me with a witter.
Oh, Huck, you know I can't do that. It ain't fair. And besides, if
you'll try this thing just a while longer you'll come to like it.
Like it? Yes, the way I'd like a hot stove, if I was to set on it long
enough. No, Tom, I won't be rich, and I won't live in them cussed
mothery houses. I like the woods and the river and hogsheads, and I'll
stick to them, too. Blame it all, just as we've got guns and a cave and
all just fixed to rob. Hear this darn foolishness has got to come up
and spile it all. Tom saw his opportunity.
Looky here, Huck, being rich ain't going to keep me back from turning
robber.
No.
Oh, good licks. Are you in real deadwood earnest, Tom?
Just as dead earnest as I'm a-sittin' here.
But, Huck, we can't let you into the gang if you ain't respectable,
you know.
Huck's joy was quenched.
Can't let me in, Tom? Didn't you let me go for a pirate?
Yes, but that's different. A robber is more high-toned than what a
pirate is, as a general thing. In most countries they are awful high
up in the nobility, dukes and such.
Now, Tom, ain't you always been friendly to me? You wouldn't have
Tom?
Huck, I wouldn't want to, and I don't want to, but what would people
say? Why, they'd say,
Tom Sawyer's gang, pretty low characters in it.
They'd mean you, Huck. You wouldn't like that, and I wouldn't.
Huck was silent for some time, engaged in a mental struggle, and
finally he said,
Well, I'll go back to the Whitter for a month and tackle it, and see
if I can come to stand it, if you'll let me belong to the gang, Tom.
All right, Huck, it's a whiz. Come along, old chap, and I'll ask the
Whitter to let up on you a little, Huck. Will you, Tom, now, will you?
That's good. If she'll let up on some of the roughest things, I'll
smoke private and cuss private and crowd through or bust. When you're
going to start the gang and turn robbers?
Oh, right off. We'll get the boys together and have the initiation
tonight, maybe.
Have the which?
Have the initiation.
What's that?
It's to swear to stand by one another and never tell the gang secrets,
even if you're chopped all to flinders, and kill anybody and all his
family that hurts one of the gang.
That's gay, that's mighty gay, Tom, I tell you.
Well, I bet it is, and all that swearing's got to be done at midnight
in the lonesomest, awfulest place you can find. A haunted house is the
best, and they're all ripped up now.
Well, midnight's good, anyway, Tom.
Yes, so it is, and you've got to swear on a coffin and sign it with
blood. Now, that's something like. Why, it's a million times bullier
than pirating. I'll stick to the witter till I rot, Tom, and if I get
to be regular ripper of a robber and everybody talking about it, I
reckon she'll be proud she snaked me in out of the wet.
Conclusion
So endeth this chronicle. It being strictly a history of a boy,
it must stop here. The story could not go much further without
becoming the history of a man. When one writes a novel about grown
people, he knows exactly where to stop, that is, with a marriage. But
when he writes of juveniles, he must stop where he best can. Most of
the characters that perform in this book still live, and are prosperous
and happy. Someday, it may seem worthwhile to take up the story of
younger ones again and see what sort of men and women they turned out
to be. Therefore, it will be wisest not to reveal any of that part of
their lives at present.
The End
This is the end of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer by Mark Twain.